Before we get started,
let's talk about why we would want to use Vue inside of Shopify themes.
Put simply, Vue.js is handy for any areas on our Shopify website that require
or encourage user interaction outside of simply navigating to new pages.
Let's think for a second about how a user might
commonly interact with an e-commerce website.
We can break it down into three main behaviors.
One, browsing or finding specific products to buy two,
adding and removing products to and from their shopping cart,
and three, taking those products to the checkout and completing their order.
On the point 1,
browsing or finding specific products to buy,
most of the time this happens via the navigation.
You simply click on the collection or category you wish to
browse and you're presented with a list of options.
This does not require interactivity beyond navigating pages.
But what about when you reach the product page and you're presented with some options
to modify the product to your liking before adding it to the cart.
Here, when you update your selection, the product image,
the product price, and other details might change.
Preferably, the user should not have to navigate to a new page or
refresh the page in order to see those minor changes.
Secondly, after a user has finished browsing and adding items to their cart,
maybe they'd like to remove products from their cart
or add additional units of the same product.
Again, it would be preferable for the update to be recorded
instantly rather than having to wait for a page refresh.
Luckily, both of these interactions we can handle on the front end using JavaScript.
But using JavaScript or jQuery on the framework at all,
we're going to have to specify which sections of the page are
intended to change and in which situations.
This results in us having to write messy codes,
both update the data and then make it so that
the updated data is then reflected on the page.
Vue.js solves this problem for us via something called reactivity.
I encourage you to read about reactivity in depth on Vue's website,
but for now this is how I will explain it.
Put simply, Vue allows us to create
a data structure and insert dynamic values onto our front-end HTML structure.
When the data changes,
so do the values on the page.
Therefore, they are considered reactive.
When writing Vue.js, we don't have to explicitly
tell the user interface to update, instead,
the user interface will react to whatever the data bound to that element has updated to.
Let's put it in terms of the two areas where we'll be using Vue in today's class,
the product page and the cart page.
On the product page,
if the product has more than one variant,
then some selection from the user is required.
The selection then determines the current variant,
which may carry with it a different price,
image, and/or stock level.
On the cart page, most if not all of
the page content will come from what is currently stored in the cart,
such as the various items in the cart, their images, titles,
prices, and the combination of those prices,
which make up the total price.
When an item or unit is removed from the cart,
this produces a trickle-down effect to the items array,
the line price of the item,
and/or the cart total.
In Vue.js, we can open up our developer tools to clearly
see our data structure and how the values on the page are kept in
sync with the structure without having to manually write lines
of code to update the values as seen on the page.
To summarize, Vue.js is most handy in these environments,
these situations in which you don't want to have to
refresh the page each time an update occurs.
On e-commerce stores specifically,
Vue.js is particularly handy when dealing with
variant selections and shopping cart interactions.